# Top-inspirational-women-in-India
For centuries from now, women have always been considered as the weaker, more exposed gender. They have always been treated inferior, not in essence with their consent, but with the help of social patterns and scientific research.

The word empowerment can be defined in many ways. However, when talking about the empowerment of women, it basically means accepting and allowing women to grow and legitimize themselves in all the prospects of life. This means that allowing women to participate in different fields like politics, formal decision making in the economic sphere, on the ability to obtain an income that enables participation in financial decision-making. Empowerment created a sense of power in an individual’s life, society, and also affects the community. You can say a woman is empowered when she can access the opportunities available without any limitations or restrictions in education, profession, and lifestyle. The inspiring Indian personalities have fought the battle against gender favoritism and have acquired all the general rights. The top inspirational women in India have made harsh and determining life decisions despite the different problems in society.

The inspiring Indian personalities also come from an underprivileged background themselves, and today they raise the flag of awareness regarding the significance of women empowerment.  The top inspirational women in India have faced many challenges and barriers to reach their full potential.  

Indian women have come a long way. Women have literally broken the glass ceiling of gender favoritism a while back, and they are now proving their mettle not only on the national platform but also on the global platform. The years that went by saw several top inspirational women in India rise and shine brighter each passing day.

The inspirational women try to participate in the women empowerment programs to inspire the women to fight for their rights. In the empowerment programs, the <a href="https://www.empoweress.in/leadership-management/8-inspirational-women-of-today-whove-created-a-legacy/">top inspirational women in India</a> try to encourage women with real experiences so that the female tribe takes further steps for the empowerment of themselves. Empowerment training spread awareness about the potential and rights an individual has. And it also prepares women on the qualities required to become a successful entrepreneur.

The inspiring Indian personalities teach the women to tap into their own inner strength and believe in themselves and each other, they acquire leadership in their lives and become a successful entrepreneur, irrespective of background. You don’t need grants to empower yourself, and it is the game of mind-set. You have to change your mind-set.

Years ago, women have overcome all the odds and faced hardship. While everything varies according to time and condition, the grit and determination that is essential to womanhood have remained endless and stood as the test of time. As the world moves forward, women in the present time are leading the charge for a progressive society. The economic empowerment of women raises the ability for a female to relish their right to control and benefit from the resources, assets, income, and personal time, as well as the ability to handle risk and expand their economic status and well-being.

